You can also check out my [google scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=TMorEBgAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao).

**Ko, Allan**, Thomas Stahlbuhk, and Brooke Shrader. November 2022. "Rate Control with Autoregressive Forecasting for High Frequency Communication," MILCOM 2022 - 2022 IEEE Military Communications Conference (MILCOM), Rockville, MD, USA, 2022, pp. 775-780, doi: [10.1109/MILCOM55135.2022.10017499](https://doi.org/10.1109/MILCOM55135.2022.10017499)
- This work introduces a data-driven framework for rate control and applies it to high frequency (HF) communication systems that propagate via the Earth's ionosphere. The rate control approach uses statistical techniques to forecast channel state with an autoregressive (AR) model, which has previously been applied to different forms of wireless fading, including "medium" timescale fading at HF. The objective of rate control is to maximize the data rate while constraining the rate of packets decoded in error. We show that under ideal assumptions, the rate controller selects the rate by backing off from the forecast average signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) by a factor of σQ^{−1}(β) , where σ^2 correlates with fading variance, β denotes a constraint on decoder errors, and Q(⋅) is the complementary cumulative distribution function of the Gaussian distribution. Simulation results on an HF channel model show that compared with naive schemes, AR forecasting provides a good balance between achieving high rate and ensuring reliability.
- Presentation slides are available [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1mtfP7tWTtHbDajEFhUVcq5TAsxHw9HSn/view?usp=share_link).

Zuckerman, Ethan, J. Nathan Matias, Rahul Bhargava, Fernando Bermejo, and **Allan Ko**. September 2019. "Whose Death Matters? A Quantitative Analysis of Media Attention to Deaths of Black Americans in Police Confrontations, 2013–2016." International Journal of Communication, \[S.l.\] 13: 27. ISSN 1932-8036. https://ijoc.org/index.php/ijoc/article/view/8782
- Media coverage of deaths of unarmed people of color at the hands of police sharply increased after the high-profile death of Michael Brown. We analyze a novel set of media data to understand reasons for this rise and to postulate a shift in reporting that treats these deaths as part of a larger pattern, crystallized around the “key event” of Michael Brown’s death rather than as unconnected incidents. We see a “news wave” that resulted in increased coverage and sharing of stories about deaths of people of color at the hands of police that aligned with activist efforts such as the Black Lives Matter movement. Our quantitative methods suggest a mechanism for tracking effectiveness of activist efforts to change the framing of important social phenomena in the news.
- See also this [related blog post](https://civic.mit.edu/2019/10/02/whose-deaths-matter-new-research-on-black-lives-matter-and-media-attention/) by Ethan Zuckerman on the Center for Civic Media website.

**Ko, Allan**. 2018. "The Cultural Life of Suicide: Observing Care and Death at MIT." Cambridge, MA: MIT. https://drive.google.com/file/d/1_p76UnZuDLrM1lnNBF-mCibhGkV2P4db/view.
- my undergraduate thesis in Comparative Media Studies, advised by Profs. [TL Taylor](https://cmsw.mit.edu/profile/tl-taylor/) and [Ian Condry](https://cmsw.mit.edu/profile/ian-condry/). Also available through [MIT Libraries](https://lib.mit.edu/record/cat00916a/mit.002803933).
- Four undergraduate students died by suicide during my enrollment at MIT between 2013 and 2017. I document the ways in which suicide becomes more than the event of death itself, embedding itself back into everyday life. Suicide becomes what I describe as ambient and infrastructural, articulated through community traditions, announcement emails, Facebook posts, publicity posters, awareness flags, and all the other structures and artifacts of daily life in the MIT community. Drawing on field observations with the student-run texting help line Lean On Me, as well as interviews of students and administrators working in campus mental health organizations, I then explore how mental health organizations approach their work within an environment where suicide is ambient and infrastructural.

**Ko, Allan**. 2013-2018. Blog about student life for MIT Admissions. http://mitadmissions.org/blogs/author/allan/archives.
- sample posts:
- [data justice for senior house](http://mitadmissions.org/blogs/entry/data-justice-for-senior-house)
- [net neutrality isn’t about objectivity—it’s about who has the power](http://mitadmissions.org/blogs/entry/neutrality-isnt-about-objectivity-its-about-who-has-the-power)
- [how to choose your major: knitting the cozy sweater of identity](http://mitadmissions.org/blogs/entry/how-to-choose-your-major) (co-constructed with Alyssa Smith and Aaron Suarez)

Shah, Anushka, **Allan Ko**, and Fernando Peinado. 2017. “The Mainstream Media Didn’t Care about Puerto Rico until It Became a Trump Story.” Washington Post, November 27, 2017. https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/posteverything/wp/2017/11/27/the-mainstream-media-didnt-care-about-puerto-rico-until-it-became-a-trump-story/.
- An examination of over 80 print and online media coverage across the United States shows that more than 1,100 news outlets carried stories about Harvey and Irma, the two other monster storms that struck U.S. soil this hurricane season, while only about 500 carried stories on Maria in a similar time frame. Overall, Hurricane Maria received only a third as many mentions in text as hurricanes Harvey and Irma. Data from the Media Cloud project at the MIT Media Lab shows that U.S. media outlets ran 6,591 stories online about Maria from Sept. 9 through Oct. 10 (one week before the formation of each hurricane through one week after the storm became inactive). By comparison, news outlets published 19,214 stories online about Harvey and 17,338 on Irma.

Zuckerman, Ethan, **Allan Ko**, Rahul Bhargava, and Hal Roberts. 2016. “Race, Fame, and Ability: Untangling Media Coverage of NFL Quarterbacks.” Blog. MIT Center for Civic Media (blog). December 24, 2016. https://civic.mit.edu/blog/rahulb/race-fame-and-ability-untangling-media-coverage-of-nfl-quarterbacks.
- Some years ago, journalist and activist, the late Dori Maynard posed a question to the Media Cloud team: Does sports media use different language to talk about black and white athletes? The question, Dori told us, came from basketball player Isaiah Thomas, who had observed that journalists often described black athletes as physically talented but talked about the intelligence of white athletes. While both descriptions are laudatory, they focus on different aspects of a player's talents, and enforce long-standing racial stereotypes about intellect and physicality. Could Media Cloud, Dori wondered, put some numbers to these anecdotes?

Matias, J. Nathan, Merry Mou, and **Allan Ko**. 2016. “The Obligation To Experiment.” MIT MEDIA LAB (blog). December 12, 2016. https://medium.com/mit-media-lab/the-obligation-to-experiment-83092256c3e9#.dudfzyo2j.
- **Tech companies should test the effects of their products on our safety and civil liberties. We should also test them ourselves.** How do you know if you have a moral obligation to test and publish the potential outcomes of something you’re doing in the world? Here we focus on the risks and benefits of an intervention. If the risks or promises are greater, the obligation is greater. In the following list, we outline categories of risk, along with actual technologies and policies that involve those risks. Risks to life include significant and often irreversible harms, while risks to liberty include societal values of rights and fairness.

Singal, Jack, **Allan Ko**, and Vahe Petrosian. 2014. “GAMMA-RAY LUMINOSITY AND PHOTON INDEX EVOLUTION OF FSRQ BLAZARS AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE GAMMA-RAY BACKGROUND.” The Astrophysical Journal 786 (2): 109. https://doi.org/10.1088/0004-637X/786/2/109.
- We present the redshift evolutions and distributions of the gamma-ray luminosity and photon spectral index of flat spectrum radio quasar (FSRQ) type blazars, using non-parametric methods to obtain the evolutions and distributions directly from the data. The sample we use for analysis consists of almost all FSRQs observed with a greater than approximately 7σ detection threshold in the first-year catalog of the Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope's Large Area Telescope, with redshifts as determined from optical spectroscopy by Shaw et al. We find that FSQRs undergo rapid gamma-ray luminosity evolution, but negligible photon index evolution, with redshift. With these evolutions accounted for we determine the density evolution and luminosity function of FSRQs and calculate their total contribution to the extragalactic gamma-ray background radiation, resolved and unresolved, which is found to be 16(+10/–4)%, in agreement with previous studies.
